>>> create an code generation AI assistant using DeepSeek R1 and Ollama LLM on custom code fro
... m a list of 100 github repos
<think>
Okay, let me try to figure out how to create an AI assistant that generates code using 
DeepSeek-R1 and Ollama based on a list of 100 GitHub repositories. The user provided the 
previous conversation where I gave them a basic RAG implementation, so now they want 
this specific application.

First, I need to understand what exactly the user is asking for. They want an AI 
assistant that can generate code by looking at examples from 100 different GitHub repos 
using DeepSeek-R1 as the document reader and Ollama as the generative model. So, it's 
not just a general RAG; it's tailored towards code generation based on existing 
codebases.

I should start by considering how to structure the data. The user mentioned a list of 
100 GitHub repos, so I'll need a way to store and access their code snippets from these 
repositories. Perhaps each repo can have its own folder with relevant files or specific 
files that are good examples for different programming languages like Python, Java, etc.

Next, using DeepSeek-R1 as the encoder, we'll need to process these code snippets into 
embeddings so that similar codebases can be retrieved when a user provides a prompt. 
This means implementing a similarity search mechanism where the AI assistant can find 
relevant repositories based on the user's query.

Then comes Ollama, which is an LLM. The assistant should use this model to generate new 
code based on the retrieved examples. This could involve taking snippets from similar 
repos and adapting them to fit the user's specific needs.

I also need to handle multiple programming languages since the repos might cover various 
areas like ML frameworks (TensorFlow, PyTorch), web development (React, Vue), system 
programming (C++, Rust), etc. Each language has its own syntax and common practices that 
the AI should respect when generating code.

Another important aspect is organizing the data so that each repo can be easily accessed 
and processed by DeepSeek-R1. This might involve writing a script or function that 
iterates over all 100 repos, extracts relevant files, tokenizes them into embeddings, 
and stores them along with some metadata like the repo name, language, and file paths.

When implementing the query system, the user should be able to input prompts in natural 
language, and the assistant should interpret this by finding similar codebases. For 
example, a prompt asking for a "TensorFlow ML model template" should retrieve repos that 
have such models and then generate code based on them.

I also need to think about how to structure the response. The AI should not only 
generate new code but also provide context from the relevant repositories so that users 
can understand where the code snippets came from. This could involve including links or 
references to the original repositories in the generated code examples.

Moreover, considering scalability and performance is crucial. With 100 repos, each 
potentially having multiple files, efficiently storing and retrieving embeddings will be 
important. Using vector databases like FAISS can help with quick similarity searches 
based on the embeddings produced by DeepSeek-R1.

Error handling and edge cases should also be considered. For instance, if a user's 
prompt is too vague or doesn't match any existing codebases, the assistant should 
gracefully handle that without crashing. Additionally, providing options for users to 
refine their queries based on results could improve usability.

I also need to ensure that the AI respects intellectual property and properly cites the 
source repositories whenever it generates code examples. This adds credibility and 
avoids issues with plagiarism.

Looking at the previous conversation, I provided a basic RAG implementation using FAISS 
and Ollama. Now, since this is more specialized for code generation, I should integrate 
the specific data structure of GitHub repos into that framework. Each repo can be 
treated as a document or set of documents (files), so DeepSeek-R1's encoder will need to 
process all these files into a unified embedding representing the entire repository.

Another consideration is performance optimization. Running 100 repos through DeepSeek-R1 
might take some time, but it's manageable if done once during setup. The code generation 
part should then be fast, relying on precomputed embeddings for quick access and 
similarity searches.

I also need to think about how to structure the response from Ollama. Since code 
examples can vary widely, the AI should format them in a way that's easy to read and 
implement. Including syntax highlighting could make the generated code more readable, 
but since this is plain text output, it might not be feasible unless using specific 
libraries or services.

Testing with different prompts will help ensure that the assistant behaves as expected. 
For example, testing with various programming languages and use cases can reveal if the 
system handles them correctly. It's also important to gather user feedback to improve 
the code generation capabilities over time.

In summary, creating this AI assistant involves setting up a data structure for GitHub 
repos, integrating DeepSeek-R1 for document encoding, implementing Ollama for code 
generation based on similar examples, and ensuring the system is scalable, performant, 
and user-friendly. I'll need to organize these steps methodically, starting from data 
preparation to query processing and response formatting.
</think>

To create an AI assistant that generates code using DeepSeek-R1 and Ollama, based on a 
list of 100 GitHub repositories, follow these organized steps:

### 1. **Data Preparation**
   - **Repository Storage**: Store each of the 100 GitHub repos in a structured 
directory system. Each repo can be in its own folder with relevant files for various 
programming languages (Python, Java, C++, etc.).
   
   - **File Extraction**: Extract all relevant code snippets (files) from each 
repository. This includes class files, functions, imports, and any other significant 
code blocks.

### 2. **DeepSeek-R1 Integration**
   - **Encoder Setup**: Use DeepSeek-R1 to encode the extracted code snippets into 
vector representations. Each file or repo will have an embedding that captures its 
semantic meaning.
   
   - **Vector Database**: Store these embeddings in a vector database (e.g., FAISS) for 
efficient similarity search. This allows quick retrieval of similar codebases based on 
user prompts.

### 3. **Ollama LLM Setup**
   - **Model Initialization**: Initialize Ollama as an LLM to generate code snippets 
based on the retrieved examples.
   
   - **Prompt Handling**: Define a prompt template that instructs Ollama to interpret 
the user's request, find relevant repositories, and adapt their code accordingly.

### 4. **Code Generation Workflow**
   - **Query Processing**: When a user submits a query (e.g., "Generate TensorFlow model 
code"), process the natural language prompt.
   
   - **Similarity Search**: Use the vector database to find repositories most similar to 
the user's request based on their code snippets.
   
   - **Prompt Interpretation**: Provide context and options for users to refine their 
queries, enhancing accuracy.

### 5. **Code Generation and Formatting**
   - **Template Usage**: Utilize code generation templates (e.g., with syntax 
highlighting) to present examples clearly and professionally.
   
   - **Context Inclusion**: Include links or references to the original repositories 
where the code snippets originated for better understanding and credibility.

### 6. **Output and Formatting**
   - **Readable Output**: Ensure that generated code is formatted in a readable manner, 
possibly using syntax highlighting libraries if necessary.
   
   - **Error Handling**: Implement gracefully handling cases where no similar repos are 
found or user input is vague.

### 7. **Performance and Scalability**
   - **Efficiency**: Optimize the system to handle multiple simultaneous queries 
efficiently by leveraging vector databases for quick searches.
   
   - **Warm-Up Periods**: Potentially implement a warm-up period during initial use to 
ensure consistent output quality from DeepSeek-R1.

### 8. **User Feedback and Iteration**
   - **Testing**: Test various prompts across different programming languages to 
evaluate the system's effectiveness.
   
   - **Feedback Loop**: Gather user feedback to improve code generation capabilities, 
such as refining prompt templates or expanding repository support.

### Example Workflow

**Step-by-Step Workflow for Code Generation:**

1. **User Query Submission**:
   ```plaintext
   "I need a template for a Machine Learning model using TensorFlow in Python."
   ```

2. **Similarity Search**:
   - The assistant searches the vector database and retrieves repositories with relevant 
code patterns.

3. **Prompt Interpretation**:
   - The context from similar repos is provided: "TensorFlow ML models, Keras layers, 
data preprocessing scripts."

4. **Code Generation**:
   ```python
   # Example Response:
   from tensorflow.keras import Sequential, Dense

   def create_model():
       model = Sequential()
       model.add(Dense(64, activation='relu', input_shape=(784,)))
       model.add(Dense(10, activation='softmax'))
       return model
   ```

5. **Output Formatting**:
   - The code is presented with brief explanations and links to the original 
repositories.

### Conclusion

By following these steps, you can create an AI assistant that effectively leverages 
DeepSeek-R1 for code encoding and Ollama for intelligent code generation based on GitHub 
repositories. This system provides a powerful tool for developers looking to generate or 
adapt code snippets efficiently.

>>> Send a message (/? for help)